# Teams

The following is a guide to how we're setting up teams at Rows, and how i'd set them up in general if I'd start anew. 

## Hiring and promoting

What we value in colleagues:
1. delivering impact. we love people who can solve unique challenges that deliver value to our users/clients, especially those we can't solve on our own.
2. focus. we avoid people who want to "own" lots of things before they execute a few well enough.
3. clarity. we avoid people who talk or write in an unclear way. 
4. easy. we want people who can take feedback positively and act on it. people who react defensively to comments and decisions make work painful.
5. vision. we love people who can search and find the one challenge we should solve, out of the potential 1000s of ideas, improvements and fixes.

When interviewing
- ask candidates about their views on what *you* are doing, what's the challenges they expect, and their experience in solving similar things.
- ask them to detail their past impact precisely - what was their role; when did they get involved; what was their contribution; who else was a part of the team.
- ask candidates about the future of the tools and processes of your industry, and what opportunities that future opens for delivering impact to users.
- expose candidates to some challenge you've tackled or plan to tackle, and see how they run with it.

## Building teams

Once your company is 10+ you should think about teams. 

* Keep teams small: Max 10 people, 5-6 is my ideal per team.
* Split up for work: If your teams have more than 4 people, work in smaller units. Alone or in groups of 2 or 3. A team of 5-10 people can tackle 2 projects simultaneously.
* Give teams a purpose: Each team should have a purpose that is limitless, like "make the best search engine for our product". Avoid overlapping purposes of different teams. 
* Assign leaders and expect responsibility: Our product teams have up to 3 leaders, Product Owner, Product Designer and Engineering Manager. Our business teams have other leaders (comms, sales, user success, etc).

## Interactions

Team work should be ... also lean and purposeful:

* Get a calendar: set time for your stuff and Time for meetings. Try to keep "meeting" days to 1, max 2 per week.
* Collaborate asynchronously: split tasks, work, discuss, merge. Avoid chats and endless synchronization processes and meetings.
* We split our calendar into 4 windows:
    - daily: advance _the business_.
    - weekly: keep people in the loop.
    - monthly: deep-dive.
    - quarterly: plan and evaluate.

### Quarterly

Quarterly we: 
- plan the next quarter and maybe the following one.
- review the past quarter performance and do promotions.
- do a board session with investors.

#### Quarter Planning - Deciding what to do next 

Each quarter we validate a list of projects per team. We do it on the last month of the quarter.
* Input
    * Marketing presents the overall company goals: what are the use cases to focus on; how many users we want to acquire, activate, convert to paid, how much revenue we should get.
    * Product presents the vision.
* Team leaders gather feedback from users, Business, designers, engineers, users, etc. 
* Product Managers organize feedback into a list of challenges (projects) including features, bugs, improvements, tech debt. 
    * We place enourmous focus on Challenge descriptions. It's critical to be clear on the problem without prescribing a technical solution.
        * Challenge: the name of the challenge, no frills.
        * Why: why you want to solve it - e.g. have users asked for it, and if so, who and how many are they?
        * Company goals: how will this impact our high-level company metrics - e.g. increase activation rates?
        * Challenge Objectives: how will we know you've solved this challenge - a certain technical metric will go up? by how much? We will witness X users doing Y?
        * Approach: is there something defined already? will we start with a Proof of Concept? a design? a spec? we
* Prioritization
    * Team leaders agree on priorities. Product Managers organize meetings to agree on a prioritization.
    * They then get it approved. Teams present plans to managers and CEO/Founders. They can agree or object, in a veto system: Team creates proposal, Managers (inc CEO) can say no and give feedback, then loop.

#### Quarter Evaluation - Understanding how we're doing

* After a quarter is over, we check how we did in terms of plans:
    * were we able to predict what we were going to do?
    * were teams mature (independent)?
    * did we deliver a lot of user/ client impact?
* We also do a check on the numbers, and what happened in terms of cohorts and other metrics.
* We then look at individual feedback and say if we support or not promotions. 

### Monthly: Deep-dive

About once per month we
- have a leadership meeting where we review the status of goals, key changes in teams' projects, ask business questions and deepdive any topic.
- conduct 1on1s with our managers/ reports.
- do an all-hands meeting where we review our status.
- send an investor update.

### Weekly: Status

Once per week, we keep people in the loop:
- every team (leaders) creates a simple status report, shared via doc (what we're doing, what we completed, main notes). This should take max 30min.
- we send news to our users inside the app, as feature announcements.
- we send news to our users in social channels (twitter, linkedin).
- we send an internal HR email with hires, leavers and other updates.
- we have a "show & tell" where anyone or any team can show-off cool stuff.

### Daily: Execution and Impact

Daily work should be impactful.

* Ship small and relevant: Make deliveries as small as you can, and focused on the user impact. Every day, there should be some output of value to your user and client. On a daily basis, F processes and internal stuff.
* Be autonomous: Deliver value by autonomously completing tasks in a way that impresses users, clients and colleagues. Deliver when it's done, not when it's almost done. Nobody cares about "almost". Leaving finalization to others is very burdensome. If you're unsure, make multiple options and show them. 
* Focus: keep your WIP=1.
* Show critical initiative: avoid adding another brain to a mob. Adopt critical, orphan, projects. Let others tackle other things. If you solve your project, eventually you'll be called for other things.

#### Executing the plan

Executing the plan involves Problem Solving and Implementation:
* At a global level, we track the list of all projects per team. 
    * Teams keep plans prioritized.
    * We track an impact-oriented status: to-do, wip (work in progress prior to 1st delivery), wip-delivering (wip after 1st delivery), closed. 
    * We don't communicate deadlines, size estimations, or complex status... In my experience, they're hard to assess and pointless in a startup.
    * At the micro level, we let the teams organize themselves however they want.
* Teams organize themselves: 
    * They can use Boards, spreadsheets, notepads. I like GOTChA charts for large projects. 
    * If teams want to do estimations or commit to deadlines, we let them do it. However, I personally focus only on delivered impact, not features, which makes it harder to demand deadlines. My solution is to look at value accross teams and quarters.
* When executing, we follow a Test and Demo philosophy:
    * Each team executes Challenges.
    * Challenges can be started in multiple ways:
        - PoC: Proofs of Concept are great for projects with significant engineering uncertainty. They should focus on a MVP of the value to deliver to the user. They can be done by engineering, without or without design even.
        - Spikes: Great to deep-dive on a technical question, to test different technologies.
        - Design: Starting with Designs is ideal for projects with low engineering uncertainty and complex/ rich user journeys. User research/ Interviews can make these really shine.
        - Specification: Starting with a specification is appropriate when you're dealing with detailed business requirements and vertical context.
        - Just start coding: Relevant for bugs and other predictive and small activities.
    * When the team made sufficient progress, they Demo to manager; Demos can be made post releasing something live. Manager checks if Challenge is fulfilled, gives feedback.


## Strategy

Having a long term strategy is important.

* Keep it simple: We commit to a strategy which is reviewed once or twice a year. The CEO generates a template, and everyone is encouraged to debate and make additions and edits. 
    * it's a great source or challenges. 
    * the collaboration part is a nice way to make space for intuition, taste & initiative.

## Responsibility and Authority

Team decisions are a tricky subject. Ultimately, everyone is responsible for the success of the company. Teams should be self-aware and decide together, that's always preferred. But as teams and skills grow, you'll see deciders (authority) popping up here and there. It's practical and perhaps unavoidable to assign Authority.

1. Empower teams: by design, teams must self-organize to make decisions, internally & autonomously. They should weight users needs and teams views, be them Business, Design or Engineering. 
1. Responsibility: Responsibility is easy to assign. Functions already prescribe responsibilities: 
    * Example: Engineers code, and are responsible for bugs in the code. 
    * Example: Sales agents are _responsible_ for sales.
    * Example: Product Managers are responsible for prioritization, so it's them who have to make sure there are priorities, that they are updated and communicated. 
1. Authority: Authority on the other hand is hard to establish. Ideally, "the best idea wins", but that's frequently code for "endless discussion of what best means". I hesitate to give authority to functions, because power is not born of a title, but real impact. It's easier to just feel and measure who has the authority, and then make it official as the organization scales. 
    * Example 1: The authority over a particular feature will depend on that feature and the team. Our Demo culture (above) prescribes that sometimes, it will be a designer, other times an engineer, yet other times a Product Manager.
    * Example 2: In our teams, the authority over the final say of a hire lies with Engineering Managers. Not even I, a founder, overrule the EMs decisions. I do give my input, strongly some times; but in the end, it's their call.


## Adaptation

This is what is currently working for us. It's not perfect, but it feels real. :)
