_This article was first posted on our Rows.com "tech" Slack channel on 2021-10-19._

Today apple is announcing their next-gen laptops and chips. 

We will see, as it's expected, new Apple silicon with many important improvements over what was gen1 (Apple m1). We will also see other improvements: I think mostly focused on screens (ProMotion/ 120Hz?) and cameras, with at least 1080p with better FOV, head tracking, better light handling with ML. Battery bumps can be there or not, depending on how much power vs. weight they want - these are Pro machines anyway. A big question is how powerful will gpus be, and if apple will continue the tradition of custom sw (Metal etc) or if they'll support some other "standards" (DirectX OpenGL etc).

I think it's important to reflect on these announcements and general industry trends seriously. The following is my perspective.

As more power is given to the FE, it seems safe for me to predict that we will be seeing more responsibilities being handed to local algorithms. Local is faster, at least in what concerns latency and cost-budget and is more reliable as there's no outages, even though it also poses significant challenges like data sync. 3D, for VR and AR, will be even more possible now, though that's of limited interest to many B2B SaaS companies like our own, [Rows.com](rows.com). Candidates for local algorithms are local search, local computation (especially Image and Video processing) and of course interface rendering — at Rows in particular we are very hopeful, as we know first-hand how rendering large tables with millions of cells and thousands of icons and images can demanding. Already we see an early indication that the industry is looking for those solutions, for example in the continued growth of productivity apps and services that are local-first or offer significant offline modes. In short, FE seems to enable richer, more fluid experiences. Obviously there's the question of where in the FE one should build the 

I recently read a terrific article that aligns with this view, [Local-first Software](https://www.inkandswitch.com/local-first.html) by the Ink & Switch collective. In short, while frontends are evolving to 120Hz, it'll be impossible for the apps to fully go there while keeping tightly coupled (synchronous) FE-BE architectures. A Back-end can't provide "120Hz Services", that is, data and transformations that operate at the speed of modern, beautiful works UIs. Probably they won't be able to do it for a long long time, given distances (imagine Earth-Mars connections), network latency and unpredictable loads.

At the same time, the more FE evolves, the more innovation will come to the BE too. Already on ARM architectures, novel Infrastructure providers such as Cloudflare are being joined by traditional ones (AWS, GCP) to offer computation that is closer to the FE (edge), faster/ more cost efficient (ARM), more powerful (ML), scalable (lambdas) and literally any kind of pre-built component you could wish for (state, realtime comms, cms, queues, DBs, etc etc). Separating and using future-proof components is critical, because as we know any tools we use tend to perpetuate and become that beautiful monster called "technical debt".
Some might think i'm relying too much on Apple. Quite the contrary. Apple rarely predicts the future. But more frequently than anyone else, though, they are the creator of the conditions for that future. Mac guis, the mouse, ethernet, wifi, iPod, iTunes, iPhone, App Stores, iPads, Apple Watches are apple creations that unleashed most of what's the basis of today's Sw economy. As an example, we can trace ourselves to the iPhone: iPhone => Massive-scale Apps => AWS => SaaS => SaaS VCs => Rows. We will find those new roots and be ourselves the basis for a future economy.
